# barcode_neutrality
This notebook assesses the barcode frequency of small library over several viral passages.
The experimental notebook is here: [https://benchling.com/s/etr-NabxP7eQFzARrExqODzX](https://benchling.com/s/etr-NabxP7eQFzARrExqODzX)


## Experimental overview
I rescued CA09 viruses (WT, bcHA, bcNA, and bcHA/bcNA) carrying 20 barcodes on the HA and NA segments. I passaged these in duplicate 3X in MDCK-SIAT1-TMPRSS2 cells at an MOI of 0.04. I titered between passages, and the while the titers were variable between replicates, they did not show any consistent trends, suggesting that no sample acquired a tissue-culture adaptation mutation.

## Analysis overview
This computational notebook currently contains two parts. In the [first](extract_barcodes.ipynb), I parse the barcodes, examine their distribution, and extract the ones I believe to be real (rather than spurious barcodes generated by PCR or sequencing errors). In the [second](barcode_plots.ipynb) I assess their frequency throughout each step in the experiment: from plasmid -> rescue -> passaging. I expect the specific barcode sequences not to have a fitness effect, and for their proportion to stay consistent throughout the experiment.

### Structure of notebooks
The FASTQ files from the sequencing run are stored in the jbloom_lab directory of the Hutch server. Paths to the files, as well as sample names, are given in [sampledata.csv](sampledata.csv). More experimental information about the samples (e.g. titers, which genes were barcoded, etc...) are given in [metadata.csv](metadata.csv).

Some specifics about the structure of the sequences used for parsing are given in [config.yaml](config.yaml).

## Results
I will give a brief summary of the results here once I have plotted clean graphs and am confident in an interpration. For the moment, I believe most samples show strong barcode neutrality. One sample, bcNA, shows a fitness effect on a single barcode, but not enough to sweep even after 3 passages.